BASAVESHWAR
(Govt.-Aided college, permanently affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University Belagavi,
Approved by AICTE, Accredited by NAAC
S.
BEC REGULATIONS
B.
To be an institution of excellence
1. Develop globally competent
2. Nurture a culture of research,
3. Promote collaborations,
and societal needs
4. Imbibe moral and ethical
5. Foster ecological and environmental
BVVS
BASAVESHWAR ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Aided college, permanently affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University Belagavi,
Approved by AICTE, Accredited by NAAC with “A” grade)
S. Nijalingappa Vidyanagar, Vidyagiri
BAGALKOTE - 587 102
REGULATIONS 2024-2025B. E. Programmes
Vision
excellence in education, research and innovation for a sustainableMission
competent professionals for future talent requirements
research, innovation and entrepreneurship
collaborations, extension and outreach programs for addressing industrial
ethical values
environmental consciousness
12025sustainable futureindustrial
2A. ABBREVIATIONS AND CODES
This section enlists the codes and abbreviations used in the regulations.
Abbreviations used in the Regulations
Commission University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi
Council All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi
University Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) Belagavi
Statute VTU Autonomous College statute 2007, Guidelines and Norms for
implementation of academic autonomy in institutions (2018) amended in
2022
GoK Government of Karnataka
DTE Directorate of Technical Education in Karnataka
CET Common Entrance Test of Karnataka conducted by Karnataka Examination
Authority (KEA)
COMEDK Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka
BEC Basaveshwar Engineering College, Bagalkote
BoG Board of Governors
AC Academic Council
Principal Principal, Basaveshwar Engineering College, Bagalkote
CoE Controller of Examinations
HoD Head of the Department
BoS Board of Studies
USN University Seat Number
CSN College Serial Number
UG Undergraduate programme
BE Bachelor of Engineering
CIE Continuous Internal Evaluation
CCE Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation
SEE Semester End Examination
GPA Grade Point Average
SGPA Semester Grade Point Average
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
MPCC Malpractice Case Consideration Committee
3B.DEPARTMENT CODES
The department codes used for the courses are given in Table B.
Table B: Department Codes
Code Name of the Department/section
Undergraduate Programmes
AI Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
AU Automobile Engineering
BT Biotechnology
CS Computer Science and Engineering
CV Civil Engineering
EC Electronics and Communication Engineering
EE Electrical and Electronics Engineering
IP Industrial and Production Engineering
IS Information Science and Engineering
ME Mechanical Engineering
UE Electronics and Computer Engineering
Basic Sciences
CH Chemistry
HS Humanities and Social Sciences
MA Mathematics
PH Physics
PG Programmes
BA Master of Business Administration (MBA)
CA Master of Computer Applications (MCA)
EV Environmental Engineering(Civil)
GT Geo-Technical Engineering(Civil)
SE Structural Engineering (Civil)
MD Machine Design (Mechanical)
4C. CODES FOR DIFFERENT CATEGORY OF COURSES
The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) mandates a student to study different categories of
courses. The codes employed to indicate the course category are listed in Table C.
Table C: Codes indicating the category of the courses
Code
Employed Category of
Courses Description
A Audit A student can register for a course to audit and the performance of the
course is reflected in the grade card but not considered in calculation of
SGPA/CGPA.
B ETC Emerging Technology Courses. Such courses can be opted by the
students of parent department and other departments also.
C Core To be passed compulsorily by a student and are corecourses to the
respective programme
D PLC Programming Language Courses: Such courses can be opted by the
students of parent department and other departments also.
E Elective Elective courses offered by departments
I Internship Inter/Intra institutional and Industrial Internship in association with
industries under supervision of faculty and Industrial personnel
L Laboratory Laboratory courses offered by departments
M Mandatory Courses not assigned with any credits, but mandatory forstudents to
pass
N Open
Elective
Interdisciplinary courses offered by departments, which can be opted by
students of other departments
O Online
Course
Online courses that can be opted by a student, offeredby MOOCs like
NPTEL/SWAYAM etc.
P Project Work Project work related to his/her discipline or of interdisciplinary nature
S Seminar
Seminar presented on relevant advanced topic of the discipline
T Term Paper A technical report to be articulated and presented/published in the
conference/journal over an academic term, on relevant advanced
topic/technology

5D. NUMBERING SCHEME FOR COURSES
Character
Place
Character Stands for
1 B/P Bachelor / Postgraduate
2 & 3 XX Offering Branch (UG branches: CV: Civil, ME: Mechanical, CS: CSE, EE:
Electrical, AU: Automobile, BT: Biotechnology etc.
PG branches: SE: Structural Engineering, EV: Environmental
Engineering, MD: Machine Design etc.)
4 A Stream-wise courses for 1st semester BE: C-CE, S-CS, E-EE, M-ME e.g., A:
Mathematics for Civil Engineering, B: Mathematics for Mechanical
Engineering etc.
Course serial (A: 1st course, B: 2nd course and so on, for higher
semesters, in case of multiple options)
5 Semester : 1 for 1st semester, 2 for 2nd semester and so on6 & 7 Course code
01: 1st course, 02: 2nd course, 03: 3rd course and so on
8 Category of Course. e.g., B-ETC, C-Core, D-PLC, E-Elective, L-Lab, and
N-ESC/Open Electives
Example codes
BMAC101C: Mathematics I for CV Stream (Stream-wise course)
B M A C 1 0 1CDegree
Bachelors
(Offering
Department)
Mathematics
Stream (for Civil
Engineering)
Semester Course
Number
Core
BCSB105D: Introduction to Python programming (Non-stream-wise course)
B C S B 1 0 5 DBachelors (Offering
Department)
CSE
Course listing
A: 1st course
B: 2nd course
C: 3rd course
Semester Course
Number
PLC
Introduction to
Python
Programming
BCSA302C: Digital Design and Computer Organization
B C S A 3 0 2C
6Bachelors (Offering
Department)
Computer Science
& Engineering
Course Serial
A: 1st course B:
2nd course
C: third course
Semester Course
Number
Core
PEVC102C: Artificial Intelligence and Applications in Civil Engineering (A course of Environmental
Engineering
P C V C 1 0 2CMasters (Offering
Department)
Civil
Environmental
Engineering
Semester Course
Number
Core
PCAA101C: Programming and Problem Solving in C
P C A A 1 0 1CMasters (Offering Dept.)
CA: MCA
First course Semester Course
Number
Core
PBAA103C: Economics for Decision Making
P B A A 1 0 3CMasters (Offering Dept.)
BA: MBA
First course Semester Course
Number
Core
E. UNIVERSITY SEAT NUMBER (USN)
It is unique number assigned to each student who is admitted for a programme during first
year. This number is valid for communication/transaction in the college and valid till the
award of degree.
The Format of USN for UG programmers is as follows.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
2 B A 2 4 C S 0 01Region
Code College Code Year of
admission
Programme
Code
Serial Number of the
Student
F. COLLEGE SERIAL NUMBER (CSN)
It is an eight-digit number assigned to each student by the college at the time of admission. This
number is used for tracking the information about individual students at any time till USN is
allotted by the University. The student shall communicate this number for all his future
correspondence to the college.
71 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
2 0 2 4 0 1 X X XXIndicates the year of admission Programme (BE) Indicates the serial number of
admissions
8Contents
1. PREAMBLE 8
2. PROGRAMMES OFFERED 9
3. ADMISSION PROCESS 11
4. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR ADMISSION 12
5. ACADEMIC CALENDAR 12
6. CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM (CBCS) 13
7. REGISTRATION PROCESS 21
8. ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATIONS 23
9. AWARD OF CLASS 27
10. VERTICAL PROGRESSION 28
11. ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS 29
12. TERMINATION FROM THE PROGRAMME 29
13. AWARD OF DEGREE 30
14. DISCIPLINE ON CAMPUS 34
15. EXAMINATION MALPRACTICES 34
16. RAGGING AND CONSEQUENCES 35
17. ACADEMIC BANK OF CREDITS 40
18. MULTIPLE ENTRY AND MULTIPLE EXIT 40
91. PREAMBLE
1.1 The regulations contained herein are common to all BE programmers, and Certification
courses offered by Basaveshwar Engineering College, Bagalkote. These regulations will be
called "BEC Regulations-BE Programmes" and are binding on all the stakeholders.
1.2 These regulations are approved by the Academic Council and Board of Governors of the
college and shall supersede all the earlier regulations.
1.3 The regulations may evolve and get modified or changed through appropriate approvals from
the Academic Council and Board of Governors from time to time. The decision of the BoG in
all matters will be final and binding on all the stakeholders.
1.4 To guarantee fairness and justice to the parties concerned in view of the periodic evolutionary
refinements, any specific issues or matters of concern shall be addressed separately, by the
appropriate authorities, as and when found necessary, which shall later be approved by AC
and BoG.
1.5 The AC and BoG may consider any issues or matters of concern relating to any or all the
academic activities of BEC and suggest appropriate action, irrespective of whether a reference
is made here in this set of regulations or otherwise.
1.6 The abbreviations and codes listed in sections A, B and C are used in BEC regulations.
102. PROGRAMMES OFFERED
This section presents various UG, PG, Diploma, Certification courses offered in the college
and also the list of research programmers offered in different disciplines.
The following programmers are offered in the college:
A. Bachelor of Engineering
The BE programmes offered are listed in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: B. E. Programmes
Sl. No. Programme Duration
1. Civil Engineering
4 Years
(3 Years for lateral entry
students)
2. Mechanical Engineering
3. Electrical and Electronics Engineering
4. Computer Science and Engineering
5. Electronics and Communication Engineering
6. Industrial and Production Engineering
7. Information Science and Engineering
8. Biotechnology
9. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
10. Automobile Engineering
11. Electronics and Computer Engineering
B. Master of Technology
Table 2.2 presents various PG programmers offered in different specializations.
Table 2.2: M. Tech. Programmes
Sl. No. Department Specialization Duration
1. Civil Engineering
Structural Engineering
2 Years
Geo-Technical Engineering
Environmental Engineering
2. Mechanical Engineering Machine Design
C. Master of Business Administration (MBA) 2 Years
D. Master of Computer Applications (MCA) 2 Years
E. Diploma Programme 1 year
F. Certification Programme 6 months
11Ph.D. and M. Sc (Engineering by Research) Programmes
The research centers recognized by VTU Belagavi are listed in Table 2.4. These research centers
offer full-time/part-time Ph.D. programmers and M. Sc. (Engg. by Research).
Table 2.4: List of Research Centers
Sl. No. Programmes
1. Civil Engineering
2. Mechanical Engineering
3. Electrical and Electronics Engineering
4. Computer Science and Engineering
5. Electronics and Communication Engineering
6. Industrial and Production Engineering
7. Biotechnology
8. Physics
9. Information Science and Engineering
10. Master of Business Administration
Ph.D. Programmes under AICTE-Quality Improvement Programme (QIP)
The departments offering Ph.D. programmes under QIP to faculty of engineering colleges, Table
2.5
Table 2.5 Departments offering QIP Programmes
Sl. No. Programmes
1. Civil Engineering
2. Mechanical Engineering
3. Electrical and Electronics Engineering
4. Computer Science and Engineering
5. Electronics and Communication Engineering
223. ADMISSION PROCESS
3.1 Admission to UG programmers will be made in accordance with the guidelines issued by the
Department of Higher Education, Government of Karnataka, and VTU Belagavi, from time to
time. Seats are reserved for candidates belonging to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes,
differently abled persons, children of defense personnel, other backward classes, and categories
as per the guidelines issued by Govt. of Karnataka.
3.2 Admission to all UG programmers will be made in the odd semester of each academic year, at
the first year level. (Refer Eligibility section (# 4) for details).
3.3 Admissions are offered to students under NRI and management quota in accordance with the
rules framed by GoK, from time to time.
3.4 The students are admitted to college under Diploma quota (Lateral Entry), allotted through
KEA/Management, directly to the 3rdsemester of the BE programme, as per GoK rules.
3.5 The transfer of students can be affected as per the guidelines issued by VTU/Management but
subject to approval from the University.
3.6 The transfer of Credits of students from VTU affiliated non-autonomous and other autonomous
colleges shall be as per the decision of respective BoS and approval of the same by the AC and
the BoG.
3.7 At any instant of time after admission, if it is found that a student has not fulfilled all the
requirements stipulated in the offer of admission, in any form whatsoever, including possible
misinformation etc., his/her admission will be revoked.
3.8 The College reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student and ask him/her to
discontinue his/her studies at any stage of his/her career on the grounds of unsatisfactory
academic performance (refer to VTU guidelines) or indiscipline or any misconduct.
3.9 Candidates must fulfill the medical standards required for admission.
3.10 Every student of UG programme will be associated with parent department offering the degree
that the student undergoes throughout his study period.
3.11 The decision of the AC and the BoG regarding the admissions is final and binding on the student.
4. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR ADMISSION TO B.E PROGRAMME
4.1 Admission to 1styear (I semester) Bachelor’s degree in Engineering shall be open for the
candidates who have passed the second year Pre-University or XII standard or equivalent
examination recognized by VTU Belagavi/GoK.
4.2 The student must have secured the percentage of marks not less than that prescribed by
23the Council and GoK under different categories as applicable.
4.3 Admission to 2ndyear (III semester) Bachelor’s degree in Engineering (Lateral Entry) shall beopen to the students with Diploma or equivalent examination, as recognized by the
University/DTE and has secured not less than the prescribed percentage of marks, in the
appropriate branch of Engineering, as specified in Government order, issued from time to
time and also as per rules specified by GoK from time to time. Such students shall clear the
prescribed bridge courses specified by the College.
4.4 The students who have passed a qualifying examination other than the PUC-II examination
of the Pre-University Education Board of Karnataka or Engineering Diploma Examinations of
the Board of Technical Education of Karnataka must obtain eligibility certificate from VTU
Belagavi, for seeking admission to degree programme.
4.5 Admission to 2nd year bachelor’s degree in Engineering through lateral entry for students
who have passed B.Sc. Degree shall be as per VTU Belagavi and GoK. Such students have to
pass the mandatory non-credit courses as prescribed by the college. The students must have
passed 10+2 Examination with Mathematics as a course.
5. ACADEMIC CALENDAR
At Basaveshwar Engineering College, Bagalkote the semester scheme is adopted for imparting
education to students admitted to BE, Certificate and Diploma programmers.
Atypical breakdown of the academic year for the semester scheme is as follows:
 (These provisions have to be judiciously followed under the guidance of faculty advisors)  Assessment and evaluation are conducted in each semester for each
programme, under two components having equal weightage namely CIE and SEE.
(More details in Assessment and Evaluation Section).  Provision for make-up examinations is made for the students after each
main semester.  Provision for Supplementary Examination for Odd/Even semester regular courses
only, with F and NP grades.
The minimum and maximum credits a student can register in a semester are given in Table
5.1.
5.1 Two semesters are offered every year: Odd semester and Even semester
5.2 The semesters, typically each of 21 weeks duration, which includes registration,
coursework, examination and announcement of results?
5.3
In a semester there shall be various provisions for the students such as:  Registration of the courses at the beginning of the semester  Counseling
 Dropping of courses as per the date mentioned in the academic calendar  Withdrawal of courses at the end of semester as mentioned in academic calendar
24Table 5.1: Range of credits to be registered in a semester for BE ProgrammeSemester Min. (Credits) Max. (Credits) Maximum Contact
Hrs./week
EVEN/ODD 16 28 35 The scheme and syllabus for each programme (all semesters) is prescribed by the
respective BoS of the department subjected to approval of AC and BoG.  The courses to be registered for the 1styear B.E are prescribed by the Joint BoS with
the approval of AC and BoG.
6. CHOICE BASED CREDIT SYSTEM (CBCS)
The college follows Choice Based Credit System for teaching and evaluation of B.E
programme. Each programme is associated with a fixed number of credits. The programmers
are defined by their credit requirements and duration as given in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: Minimum number of credits for Award of B.E Degree/PG Diploma/Certificate
Programme Regular duration
in years
Number of
Semesters
Minimum number of
credits to be earnedUG Degree
B.E 4.0 8 160BE (Lateral Entry) 3.0 6 120Diploma (UG/PG) 1.0 2 44
Certificate -- 0.5 1 22
The maximum period, which a student can take to complete a fulltime academic programme
shall be double the nominal duration of the programme i.e., 8 years for B.E and 6 years for
B.E (Lateral Entry students)
6.1 Allocation of Credits for B.E Programme
The distribution of credits for B.E programme over the different subject areas is given in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2 Credit split for BE Programmes
Sl.
No.
Category Suggested
Credits
1. HSMC: Humanities, Social Sciences & Management Courses 14
2. BSC: Basic Sciences 22
3. Engineering Sciences 18
4. PCC: Professional Core Courses 57
5. PEC: Professional Elective 12
6. OEC: Open Electives Courses 09
7. Mini project(02 credits) @ 5thsemester, Major Project: Phase-I (02
credits)@ 6th semester & Phase-II(06 credits)@ 7thsemester, Industry
Internship/Research Internship (10 credits) (15 - 20 weeks) @ 8th
20
25semester
8 AEC: Ability Enhancement Courses 08
9. Non-Credit Mandatory Courses:
i. Yoga or NSS or Sports or Music from 3rd to 6th semester
ii. Quantitative Aptitude and Professional Skills @ 5
th Sem
Total 160
* Minor variation is permitted as per requirement of the respective discipline approved by BoS,
Academic Council and BoG
6.1.1. Mandatory Courses
The B.E degree students shall have to pass mandatory non-credit courses, if any, as prescribed by
the respective BoS and the Diploma lateral entry students have to pass the mandatory courses in
addition to the courses mentioned above. B.Sc lateral entry students have to pass Computer
Aided Engineering Graphics and Engineering Mechanics in addition to the other mandatory
courses studied by regular B.E students.
Induction Programme
A 3-week induction programme is included for the first year BE students as per the requirement of
AICTE Model Curriculum or as per VTU Guidelines issued from time to time.
Activity Points
In addition to technical knowledge, skills are required to be successful professionals. The students
should have excellent SoftSkills, Leadership qualities, Team spirit, Entrepreneurial capabilities,
and Societal commitment. To match these multifarious requirements, AICTE has introduced
Activity Point Programme, through which a regular student admitted to 4 years degree
programme including lateral entry students, shall earn the activity points as given in Table 6.3.
i. The activity points earned shall be reflected on the student’s eighth semester grade card.
ii. The activity points (non-credit) have no effect on SGPA/CGPA and shall not be considered for
vertical progression.
iii. The students will be eligible for award of B.E degree only upon earning the prescribed activity
points and the same reflected in eighth semester grade card.
Table 6.3: AICTE Activity Points
Sl.
No.
Student Category Activity Points
prescribed by AICTE
1. A regular student admitted to 4 years degree programme 1002. A regular student admitted to 4 years degree programme, admitted
through lateral entry 753. Students transferred from other universities to fifth semester 506.2 COURSE CONTENT DESCRIPTION
Course content description consists of Course Code, Title of the Course, Credits and Description of
the Content.
26Ex: BCSA503E-Data Science: Data Science. Applications of data science, Data types, Preprocessing, Data analysis and analytics, Tools for Data Science, Machine Learning for Data Science,
Unsupervised learning, Applications, Evaluations and Methods, Data collection, experimentation,
Data collection and analysis methods
Prerequisite: A course tutor may prescribe another course as prerequisite for crediting a course.
Thus, a course might have another course specified as its prerequisite. A student who has not
undergone a course mentioned as prerequisite will not be eligible to study the course under
consideration.
Ex: Prerequisite – BCSA402C: Database Management Systems: A student who has undergone the
course BCSA402C will only be eligible to register for the course BCSA503E-Data Science.
6.3 CREDIT SYSTEM
The credit system enables continuous evaluation of a students' performance and allows the
students to progress at an optimum pace suitable to individual ability and convenience.
However, a student must fulfill minimum credit requirement for continuation of
programmeon semester or session basis.
6.4 CREDIT DEFINITION
Every course has certain number of credits assigned based on the students' contact hours in a
week.
The following example illustrates the credit assignment pattern.
BCSA302C: Computer Organization, 4 credits (3:2:0) (3 Hrs. Lectures + 2 Hrs. Tutorial+ 0 Hr.
Practical) per Week.
A typical credit structure based on the definition is given in Table 6.4.
Table6.4: Credit Structure for Coursework
Theory/Lectures (L)
(Hrs./week/Sem.)
Tutorials (T)
(Hrs./week/Sem.)
Laboratory/Practical (P)
(Hrs./week/Sem.)
Credits
(L+T+P)
Credits
(Total)4 0 0 4+0+043 0 2 3+0+142 2 2 2+1+143 0 0 3+0+032 2 0 2+1+032 0 2 2+0+130 0 6 0+0+332 0 0 2+0+021 0 0 1+0+010 2 0 0:1:010 1 1 0+0.5+0.510 0 2 0+0+11Note: Activities like practical training, study tour & participation in Guest lectures donot carryany credits

276.5 GRADING SYSTEM
The grading system is implemented on a 10 points scale with letter grades O, A+,A, B+, B,C,Pand F
and are given in Table6.5. The Grade awarded (an alphabet) to the students are basically a
qualitative measure of the performance of a student, such as Outstanding (O), Excellent (A+),
Very Good (A), Good (B+), Above Average (B), Average (C), Pass (P) and Fail (F). If a student
remains absent for SEE for any of the courses, the letter grade assigned to that shall be F.
NE:If a student fails to satisfy attendance and/or CIE requirement course/s then such course/s
shall be marked as not eligible (NE, i.e., not eligible to appear for SEE in that course/s. Such
candidates have to re-register. However, the number of attempts will be mentioned in the grade
card.
F: If a candidate is eligible in CIE but remains absent or fails to obtain the qualifying marks
(minimum passing marks), prescribed for the course, in SEE, is awarded F grade. Such candidates
need to re-appear whenever conducted.
There are different approaches possible for awarding grades like absolute grading, relative
grading etc., presently absolute grading is adopted in the evaluation system at BEC. This is usually
arrived after the assessment of student’s performance in a course.
The following method is used for awarding grades in a course. A letter grade, corresponding to
specified number of grade points, is awarded in each course registered by a student. On
obtaining a minimum pass grade, the student’s performance is evaluated by the number of
credits that he/she has earned and by the weighted grade point average.
Table 6.5:Letter Grade and Corresponding Grade points on a typical 10-point scale
Range of Marks(Out
of 100) Grade Grade Points Level
90 to 100 O 10 Outstanding80 to 89 A+ 9 Excellent
70 to 79 A 8 Very Good60 to 69 B+ 7 Good55 to 59 B 6 Above Average50 to 54 C 5 Average40 to 49 P 4 Pass
0-39 F 0
Fail
6.6 AUDIT COURSES
In addition, a student can register for courses as audit only, with a view to supplement
knowledge and/or skills. The courses audited by students are awarded grades and reflected in
his/her Grade Card. However, the grades are not taken into consideration while determining the
student’s academic performance in that semester (SGPA and CGPA). The total number of credits
registered by a student in that semester including audit courses must not exceed the maximum
credits in the semester.
6.7 GRADE POINT AVERAGES
286.7.1 The Grade point averages SGPA and CGPA are computed using the credits index, credit
points and grade points earned by the student.The grade points awarded to the student is
computed as per Table 6.5 depending on the grade assigned to the courses. The credit
points earned by a student are equal to the number of credits assigned to the course
multiplied by the grade points awarded to the student. The credit index of a student for a
semester is the total of all the credit points earned by the student for all the courses
registered in that semester.
Example: BCSA302C (3-0-0) If a student earns a B Grade, the grade points earned in the course is 8
and Credit Points is (6 × 3=18).
6.7.2 Semester Grade Points Average (SGPA) and the Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA),
are important performance indices of a student.
6.7.3 The SGPA reflects the credit index for a semester which is equal to the total credit points
earned in the semester divided by the number of credits registered by the student in that
semester.
6.7.4 The CGPA reflects the performance index of a student till the previous semesters which is
equal to the total of credit indices of all the previous semesters divided by the number of
credits earned in all the previous semesters.
Thus,
𝑺𝑮𝑷𝑨
=
∑[(𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒 𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑠) × (𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑃𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠)] ൬
𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒𝑠 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 𝑖𝑛 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟
𝑒𝑥𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑠 ൰
∑[(𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒 𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑠)] ൬
𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒𝑠 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑑 𝑖𝑛 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟
𝑒𝑥𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑠 ൰
𝑪𝑮𝑷𝑨
=
∑[(𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒 𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑠) × (𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑃𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠)] ൬
𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒𝑠 𝑒𝑥𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑠𝑒 𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝐹, 𝑁𝐸
𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑠 𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑙 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟൰
∑[(𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒 𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑠)] ൬
𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠𝑒𝑠 𝑒𝑥𝑐𝑙𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑠𝑒 𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝐹, 𝑁𝐸
𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑠 𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑙 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑡 𝑠𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟൰
Sample of calculation of SGPA and CGPA are given in Tables 6.6 and 6.7.
Table 6.6: Typical Calculation of SGPA and CGPA for BE I-Semester
Course
Code
Course
Credits
Registered
Grade
Awarded
Earned
Credits
Grade
Points
Credit Points
Earned(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
BMAS101C 4.0 W 0 0 0BCHS102C 4.0 A+ 4.0 9 36BCED103C 3.0 B 3.0 6 18BEEA104N 3.0 C 3.0 5 15BCSB105D 3.0 F 0.0 0 00BHSB106C 1.0 P 1.0 4 04
29BHSB107C/
BHSC107C
1.0 O 1.0 10 10BHSB108C 1.0 A 1.0 8 8Total: 20 13 91Credits registered in the semester : 20 (Total of Column 2)
Credits registered after withdrawal : 20 – 4 = 16 (Total of Column 2 – Sum of credits of
all withdrawn courses)
Earned credits in the semester : 16 – 3 = 13 [Total of Column4 (Credits registered
after withdrawal – Sum of credits ofcourses with F Grade)]
Credit index secured in the semester : 93 (Total of Column 6)
 SGPA =
ଽଵ
ଵ଺
 = 5.68 and CGPA =
ଽଵ
ଵଷ
= 7.00
Table 6.7: Typical Calculation of SGPA and CGPA for BE II-Semester
Subject
No
Subject
Credits
Registered
Grade
Awarded
Earned
Credits
Grade
Points
Credits Points
Earned(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
BMAS201C 4.0 A 4.0 8 32BPHS202C 4.0 B 4.0 6 24BCSA203C 3.0 O 3.0 10 30BECA204N 3.0 F 0.0 0 00BISA205B 3.0 W 0.0 0 00BHSA206C 1.0 A 1.0 8 8BHSA207C 1.0 P 1.0 4 04BHSA208C 1.0 A 1.0 8 8BMAS101C
Re-registered)
4.0 A+ 4.0 9 36
BCSB105D
(Re-appeared)
3.0 B 3.0 6 18
TOTAL 27 21 160Credits registered in the semester : 27 (Total of Column 2)
Credits registered after withdrawal : 27 – 3 = 24 (Total of Column 2 – Sum of credits
of all withdrawn courses)
Earned credits in the semester : 24 – 3 = 21 [Total of Column4 (Credits
registered after withdrawal – Sum
of credits of courses with F Grade)]
Credit index secured in the semester : 160 (Total of Column 6)
210Sum of credit indices of all previous
semesters
: 91 + 160= 251
Total credits earned : 13 + 21 = 34
SGPA =
160
21 = 7.61 and CGPA =
ଶହଵ
ଷସ
 = 7.38
6.7.5 A student is considered to have completed a course successfully and earned the credits if
he/she secures a letter grade other than I, W, X, F,NP, NE in that course.
6.7.6 The transitional Grades I, W & X, shall be awarded to a student in the following cases:
a. Grade I: It is awarded to a student having satisfactory attendance at classes and
meeting the passing standard at CIE in a course, but remained absent from SEE for a
valid and convincing reasons acceptable to the college, like:
i. Illness or accident, which disabled him/her from attending SEE
ii. A calamity in the family at the time of SEE, which required the student to be
away from the college
iii. any other verifiable exigency
b. Grade W: It is awarded to a student having satisfactory attendance at classes, but
withdrawing from that course as mentioned in the academic calendar, under faculty
advice. Further, a student can withdraw from a regular registered course once and
only once, maintaining minimum credits requirements.
c. Grade X: It is awarded to a student with a high CIE rating (≥90%) in a course, but SEE
performance is observed to be poor, which results in overall F Grade in the course.
d. However, there is no scope for awarding transitional grades in the Supplementary
examinations.
e. The transitional grades are to be converted into one or the other of the valid letter
grades (O to F, NP) after a student completes all the academic requirements of the
course.
6.7.7 The Grade Card (or transcript) of a student at the end of the semester will have a list of all
the courses, regular, re-registered and re-appeared, taken by a student, however, only
those grades (O to F, NP, NE) are included in the computation of the student
performance. Thus, the courses taken for audit will not form part of the computation. The
results of the mandatory courses, which are of non-credit type, will also be reflected in the
Grade Card as PP (for passed) or NP (not passed). It is necessary for each student to obtain
the Grade PP in every mandatory course to qualify for the award of the degree.
6.7.8 I and X grades awarded to a student should be converted into an appropriate letter
grades in the subsequent make up examination. Otherwise, the grade will be
automatically converted into F or NP grades.
6.7.9 The NE and W grade awarded to a student would be eligible for conversion to the
appropriate letter grade only if the concerned student re-registers for these courses in a
semester and fulfills the passing standards for the CIE and SEE.
2117. REGISTRATION PROCESS
7.1 REGISTRATION
Registration is an important procedural part of the academic system. Every student after
consulting his/her faculty advisor in the department has to register for respective courses
approved by the BoS of the department. This ensures that a student’s name is on the roll for
each course he/she wants to study during that academic year.
Each student has to register for the course work at the beginning of the semester. Course
load has to be maintained as mentioned in Section 5.
No credit is given, if a student attends the course for which he/she has not registered.
Registration for the courses in a particular semester will be done as per specified schedule.
The student must ensure that his/her fee dues are paid before the commencement of each
semester/session.
Registration in absentia and registration after the specified date is not permitted. However,
in exceptional cases, this may be permitted at the discretion of Principal. In case of illness or
absence during registration due to valid reasons, a student must intimate the same to the
concerned faculty advisor and the HoD. For reasons beyond his/her control, if a student is
not able to register or inform the same, he/she may submit an application to the Principal for
late registration. The Principal may consider the late registration in genuine cases with
penalty.
However, late registration is not permitted beyond one week after the starting of the semester.
Each student will be provided with a registration report, which will be an official record of
courses registered. Adding, dropping, withdrawal and auditing will be marked on this report
itself. The data contained in this report will be used for resolution of discrepancies, if any, later.
The duly filled registration report is to be submitted in the concerned department on or
before the specified date, failing to do so the registration is liable to be cancelled.
7.2 COUNSELING
A student must consult his/her faculty advisor at the time of registration process, to finalize
the courses for a given programme, keeping in view minimum/maximum number of credits,
past performance, backlog courses, SGPA/CGPA, pre-requisites, workload, and student’s
interest. Special provisions are made available for academically weak students.
7.3 LOWER AND UPPER LIMITS FOR CREDITS REGISTERED
A student must register for the appropriate number of credits, as mentioned in Table 5.1.
7.4 MINIMUM STUDENT REGISTRATION IN A COURSE
A course will be offered, only if a minimum of 10 students registers for the course. Under
special circumstances with the prior permission of the Principal and approval of the Head of
the Department course may be offered even when number of students registered is less than
10.
7.5 CREDIT MONITORING
212The students must keep track of the number of credits earned and plan for completion of
the prescribed number of credits for the programme. It is the responsibility of the student to
inform the concerned faculty advisor and HoD in case of any discrepancies with regards to
the credits earned and must get the necessary corrections done.
7.6 DROPPING, WITHDRAWAL FROM COURSES
7.6.1. Dropping of courses
A student can drop a course, without being mentioned in the grade card, on or before the
specified date in the calendar of events based on the review of the student’s performance in
CIE by the faculty advisor. However, the criterion of minimum number of credits specified
for the semester is complied with and such courses are to be completed by re-registering later.
The student is not permitted to drop the re-registered course(s).
7.6.2. Withdrawal from courses
A student can withdraw from a course provided he/she,
 has satisfactory attendance in a course at the end of a semester based on the review of
the students' performance in CIE by the faculty advisors and
 has maintained minimum credits specified for the semester
However, the same will be depicted in grade card (Grade W).
A Student is not permitted to withdraw re-registered courses(s). Such course(s) are to be
taken up for study and re-registered later.
7.6.3. Add/Drop
A student has the option to add or drop courses for which he/she has registered, within one
week of commencement of the semester.
7.7 REJECTION OF RESULTS
There shall be a provision for rejection of total performance of a semester and re-registration for
the semester. This shall be done only once in the entire course of studies. However, rejection of
performance of final year project work is not permitted and as per the guidelines issued by VTU
Belagavi, from time to time.
7.8 TEMPORARY WITHDRAWALS AND RE-ADMISSION
A student shall be permitted to withdraw temporarily from the college based on prolonged
illness, grave calamity in the family or any other serious event. The withdrawal and readmission shall be as per the regulations/directions issued by the university, from time to
time.
7.9 TRANSFER OF STUDENTS
Transfer of students from any college (either Non-Autonomous or Autonomous), within
Karnataka State is permitted only at the beginning of odd semester, subjected to availability
of seats and as per the guidelines of VTU issued from time to time and approval by the
respective
313BoS of the programme. The candidates seeking admission shall have to apply for
establishment of equivalence with prescribed fees notified by the college.
8 ASSESSMENT AND EXAMINATIONS
The assessment of performance in a course is based on examination that a student appears.
In general, examination may have different objectives, like testing of achievement,
prediction, endurance, creativity and ranking. In technical education, the assessment has to
be preferably of achievement-testing type, so that a student’s knowledge, understanding and
competence in the course studied is properly assessed and certified.
Typically, achievement-testing is done in two parts, namely Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)
and Semester End Examination (SEE). Both are important in assessing the achievement of a
student.
Each course is assessed for 100 marks with equal weightage for CIE and SEE, i.e., 50 for CIE
and 50 for SEE. The standards of passing CIE and SEE for each course registered are as given in
Table 8.1.
Table 8.1: Requirement for passing a course
Evaluation Method Passing Requirement
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) Obtained Marks ≥ 40% of maximum marksSemester End Examination (SEE) Obtained Marks ≥ 35% of maximum marks
Overall score for passing ≥ 40%
8.2 SCHEMES OF EVALUATION
I. Integrated courses
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) Assessment:
Theory component:
1. Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) test
CIE first test - 50 marks, CIE second test - 50marks
Total marks 100 reduced to 30. Minimum passing marks 40 (100 marks) or 12 (30marks)
2. Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE)
A. Component-I: Assignment : Two assignments of five marks each preferably be collected one
week prior to 1st and 2nd CIE tests, totalling to 10 marks
B. Component-II: Quiz/project/simulation/seminar etc., except assignment: At least one Quiz or
seminar, or simulation, or project, or design etc of 10 marks preferably be conducted between 1st
and 2nd CIE tests, totalling to 10 marks
Total marks of A and B is 20 and minimum passing marks is 8.
Total marks of CIE and CCE is 50 reduced to 25.
Laboratory Component:
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)
Total CIE marks = 50 marks (For regular conduction 30 marks and CIE test 20 marks)
Min. Marks = 20 marks (Regular conduction 12 marks and CIE test 08 marks)
A. Regular conduction: Each experiment is to be evaluated for10 marks and suggested
distribution of 10 marks as given below
3141. Write up = 02 mark
2. Conduction, calculation, graph, result, viva = 06 marks
3. Journal record = 02 marks
 Total = 10 marks
Total 10 experiments, 10 x 10 marks = 100 marks and then reduced to 30 marks
Minimum marks for passing = 40 ( for 100 marks) and 12 ( 30 marks)
B. Lab CIE test: The Lab CIE test is to be conducted for 50 marks and reduced to 20 marks.
Minimum passing marks 20 (50 marks) or 08 (20 marks)
The distribution of marks :
20 % write up = 10 mark
60% conduction, calculation, graph and result = 30 marks
20 % Viva voce = 10 marks
Total = 50 marks reduced to 20 marks
 Min. Marks (passing) = 20 marks (50)= 08 marks (20)
LAB CIE Marks = 30 (regular conduction)+ 20(Lab CIE test) = 50 marks
Min. Marks for passing = 12 (regular conduction)+ 08(Lab CIE test) = 20 marks
Total marks of regular conduction and Lab CIE test is 50 reduced to 25.
Total marks of theory and laboratory component is 50
Minimum marks required for eligible to SEE : 20
NOTE:
 If a student fails to score minimum marks and satisfactory attendance either in theory
or practical component in course/s, he/she will be awarded NE grade
 NE grade course/s to be re-registered by the students whenever offered
Semester End Examinations (SEE) Assessment
1. Theory SEE will be conducted for 100 marks as per the scheduled time table for a
course (duration 03 hours)and later scaled down to 50marks
2. The question paper will have 10 questions. Two questions per module. Each question is
set for 20 marks.
3. The students has to answer 5 full questions choosing one full question from each
module.
4. Marks scored by the student shall be proportionally scaled down to 50 Marks
The theory portion of the Integrated Course shall be for both CIE and SEE, whereas the
practical portion will have aCIE component only.
Sl.
No.
Component Examination conducted
for marks
Minimum marks Marks after scaling
down
1. CIE theory CIE test 30 50 12 20 25
 CCE 20 08
2. CIE Lab Conduction 30 50 12 20 25
Test 20 08
Total 50
315Sl.
No.
Component Examination conducted for
marks
Minimum
Marks
Marks after
scaling down
1. SEE theory
only
100 35 50
PASSING NORMS: CIE + SEE MINIMUM 40 MARKS
Note: If a student fails in course/s, ‘F’ grade will be awarded
 ‘F’ grade awarded course/s, student has to reappear for SEE whenever next conducted
II. Non-Integrated courses
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) Assessment:
1. Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) test
CIE first test - 50 marks, CIE second test – 50marks
Total marks 100 reduced to 25. Minimum passing marks 40 (100 marks) or 10 (25 marks)
2. Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE)
A: Component-I: Assignment: Two assignments of 7.5 marks each preferably be collected one
week prior to 1st and 2nd CIE tests, totalling to 15 marks
B: Component-II: Quiz/project/simulation etc., except assignment” At least one Quiz or
seminar, or simulation, or project, or design etc of 10 marks preferably be conducted between
1
st and 2nd CIE tests, totalling to 10 marks
Total marks of A and B is 25 and minimum passing marks is 10.
Total marks of CIE test and CCE is 50.
Minimum marks required for eligible to SEE: 20
 If a student fails to score minimum marks in CIE Test and CCE and satisfactory
attendance, he/she will be awarded NE grade
 NE grade course/s to be re-registered by the students whenever offered
Semester End Examinations (SEE) Assessment
1. Theory SEE will be conducted for 100 marks as per the scheduled time table for a
course (duration 03 hours) and later scaled down to 50marks
2. The question paper will have 10 questions. Two questions per module. Each question is
set for 20 marks.
Sl.
No.
Component Examination conducted for marks Minimum marks
1. CIE theory CIE test 25 10
CCE 25 10
Total : 50 20
3163. The students have to answer any 5 full questions choosing one full question from each
module.
4. Marks scored by the student shall be proportionally scaled down to 50 Marks
Sl.
No.
Component Examination
conducted for marks
Minimum
Marks
Marks after
scaling down
1. SEE theory only 100 35 50
PASSING NORMS: CIE + SEE MINIMUM 40 MARKS
Note:
 If a student fails in course/s, ‘F’ grade will be awarded
 ‘F’ grade awarded course/s, student has to reappear for SEE whenever next conducted
III. Laboratory Courses
Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) Assessment
Total CIE marks = 50 marks (For regular conduction 30 marks and CIE test 20 marks)
Min. Marks = 20 marks
Regular conduction: Each experiment is to be evaluated for10 marks and suggested distribution
of 10 marks as given below
1. Write up = 02 mark
2. Conduction, calculation, graph, result, viva = 06 marks
3. Journal record = 02 marks
 Total = 10 marks
Total 10 experiments, 10 x 10 marks = 100 marks and then reduced to 30 marks
A. Lab CIE test: The Lab CIE test is to be conducted for 50 marks and reduced to 20 marks.
The distribution of marks:
20 % write up = 10 marks
60% conduction, calculation, graph and result = 30 marks
20 % Viva voce = 10 marks
Total = 50 marks reduced to 20 marks
LAB CIE Marks = 30 (regular conduction) + 20(Lab CIE test) = 50 marks
Min. Marks for passing = 20 marks
Sl. No. Component Examination conducted for marks Minimum Marks
1. CIE Lab Conduction 30 20
Test 20
Total : 50
317Total marks of regular conduction and Lab CIE test is 50, Minimum marks required for eligible
to SEE:20
NOTE:
 If a student fails to score minimum marks and satisfactory attendance in practical
course/s, he/she will be awarded NE grade
 NE grade course/s to be re-registered by the students whenever offered
Semester End Examinations (SEE) Assessment
1. The Lab SEE is to be conducted for 50 marks.
2. Laboratory SEE shall be conducted by two examiners
3. Minimum passing marks 18.
4. Duration for examination minimum 2 hours
5. Change of experiment is allowed only once and 15% of maximum marks.
6. The suggestive distribution of marks:
20 % write up = 10 mark
60% conduction, calculation, graph and result = 30 marks
20 % Viva voce = 10 marks
Sl.
No.
Component Examination conducted for marks Minimum Marks
1. SEE Lab 50 18
Note:
 If a student fails in course/s, ‘F’ grade will be awarded
 ‘F’ grade awarded course/s, student has to reappear for SEE whenever next
conducted
Evaluation, Viewing of answer scripts and challenge valuation
The evaluation of SEE answer scripts is to be carried out centrally. A provision is made for a
student to view the answer script. Further, a student can apply for challenge valuation, if he/she is
not satisfied with the evaluation on payment of prescribed fees which will be notified separately.
The provision of challenge valuation is permitted only to SEE of theory courses for regular
(odd/even) semester and not permitted for either make up examination or SEE of supplementary
examination.
The evaluation and result of makeup examination and supplementary examination is final and
binding. A student shall not have any right to question the evaluation nor the result of makeup
examination and supplementary examination.
Challenge evaluation is only for theory courses. If a student applies for challenge evaluation, then
the maximum of marks obtained in either first valuation or challenge valuation will be
considered.
3188.3 PROJECT WORK EVALUATION
Project work of VII/VIII Semester
Examination Phase Period (Duration) Marks Evaluation by
 CIE
Evaluation-I Before first one and
half month in VII/VIII
semester of BE
Program
15 Committee consisting of
HOD/Nominee + Project
Coordinator/Nominee of Project
Coordinator + Guide(s)
Evaluation-II Before 15 days from
the last working day of
VII/VIII semester of BE
Program
15
Evaluation by
guide
In the last week of
working days of
VII/VIII semester
20 Guide(s)
 SEE Semester End
Examination
During SEE of VII/VIII
semester of BE
Program
50 Committee consisting of
HOD/Nominee + External Examiner
8.4 EVALUATION OF SEMINAR/TERM PAPER/MINIPROJECT/INTERNSHIP/INDUSTRIAL
TRAINING/FIELD WORK
Mini-project of V/VI Semester BE
Rubrics
for
Phase Period (Duration) Marks Evaluation by
CIE
Evaluation -I Within ONE MONTH from the start of
5th /6th semester of BE Program
15
Committee consisting
of HoD/ Nominee +
Coordinator +
Guide(s)
Review Before 15 days from the end of 5th
/6th semester of BE Program
15
Evaluation by guide Before one week from the end of 5th
/6th semester of BE Program
20 Guide(s)
SEE Semester End
Examination
During SEE of 5th /6th semester of BE
Program
50 External + Internal
Examiners
Research Internship/ Industry Internship Guidelines
1. Student’s Diary/ DailyLog
Student’s Diary and Internship Report should be submitted by the students along with attendance
record and an evaluation sheet duly signed by the internal guide, immediately after the completion of
the internship. It will be evaluated based on the following criteria:
 Regularity in maintenance of the diary.
 Adequacy & quality of information recorded.
 Drawings, sketches and data recorded.
 Thought process and recording techniques used.
 Organization of the information.
2. Internship Report
The Internship report will be evaluated based on following criteria:
319 Originality.
 Adequacy and purposeful write-up.
 Organization, format, drawings, sketches, style, language etc.
 Variety and relevance of learning experience.
 Practical applications, relationships with basic theory and concepts taught in course.
3. Evaluation through Seminar Presentation/Viva-Voce at the Institute
The student will give a seminar based on his/her training/internship report, before an expert committee
constituted by the concerned department as per norms of the institute. The evaluationwill be based on
the following criteria:
 Quality of content presented.
 Proper planning for presentation.
 Effectiveness of presentation.
 Depth of knowledge and skills.
 Attendance record, daily diary, departmental reports shall also be analyzed along with the
Report.
Scheme of Evaluation for Research Internship /Industry Internship
The students pursuing the course of Research Internship /Industry Internship shall submit the diary
recordings of day-to-day activities and monthly report to the concerned guide. Student should report
progress achieved in the course and seek guidance to proceed with the internship. The interns should
provide all the details to the guide, so that he/she can discuss with the employer to make the internship
successful. The intern should constantly update the guide about the progress of the internship. The guide
should know the interns internship tasks, duties, responsibilities, and potential projects. The hardcopy or
softcopy of the diary maintained by the interns must be signed at least once in a month by the guide.
Illustrations, drawings, photos, forms, samples, classified materials, etc., are to be included in the report
only after obtaining the consent of the concerned authorities and should indicate the source of all such
material. The final report, should also be submitted to the place where internship was carried out. The
report should avoid a tone that is predominantly cynical or unduly critical of the internship provider or of
those with whom the student intern worked. The content of the report must be of interns own work.
The guide must issue a recommendation letter to state whether the intern,
 (i) Exceeded the expectations of the internship.
(ii) Met the expectations of the internship.
(iii) Did not meet the expectations of the internship.
 (iv) Did work to a satisfactory level.
 (v) Did an unsatisfactory internship.
And same should be attached in the report.
Assessment of Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE)
Assessment of CIE for 100 marks shall be awarded by a committee consisting of the Head/Nominee of the
concerned department and two faculty members of the department, one of whom shall be the guide in
case of single discipline and guides in case of interdisciplinary. Participation of external guide/s, if any, is
desirable. The CIE marks awarded for the interns shall be based on the rubrics (Annex 1).
Assessment of Semester End Evaluation (SEE)
Assessment of SEE for 100 marks shall be awarded as per the rubrics (Annex 2) by a committee consisting
of the Head of the concerned department and two faculty members of the department, one of whom
shall be the guide in case of single discipline and guides in case of interdisciplinary.
Single discipline: Contribution to the internship and the performance of each group member shall be
320assessed individually in semester end examination (SEE) conducted at the department. Marks shall be
awarded based on the evaluation of the diary, report, presentation skill and question and answer session
in the ratio 50:25:25.
Interdisciplinary: Contribution to the internship and the performance of each group member shall be
assessed individually in semester end examination (SEE) conducted separately at the departments to
which the student/s belong to. Marks shall be awarded based on the evaluation of the diary, report,
presentation skill and question and answer session in the ratio 50:25:25.
8.5 RE-EXAMINATION: There shall be no re-examination for any course to account for students who
have:
i. remained absent from attending CIE
ii. been awarded NE grade for a course
iii. withdrawn (Grade W) from a course
iv. dropped a course
Such students shall be required to re-register for the course(s), attend the classes regularly and go
through CIE and SEE again and thus secure a grade equal to or better than P in each case for credit
courses or PP in case of mandatory courses. The re-registration shall be possible when the
course is offered again in either odd/even semester.
8.6. GRACING POLICY
Grace of two marks are given for a paper for 100 marks and one mark for a paper of 50 marks, in SEE.
8.7 SUPPLEMENTARY EXAMINATION
Supplementary examination is conducted
i. after even semester
ii. only for regular courses of odd and even semester, for the courses awarded F and NP
grades
iii. No challenge valuation and booklet viewing for Supplementary Examination papers.
8.8 STUDENTS’ FEEDBACK
A student has to provide feedback for each course(s) he/she has registered, in the online/offline
format provided, at the end of a semester. This will enable for analysis and betterment of the
academic programmers.
9 AWARD OF CLASS
A student will be awarded percentage/class by converting the grade point averages viz. SGPA and
CGPA, for the sake of comparison with conventional marks system followed by Universities.
Class Designation:
Class designation shall be as per VTU Regulations and notifications, for respective programmers,
notified from time to time.
321Conversion of CGPA into Percentage of marks and Class Equivalence
There is no formula for conversion of CGPA into the percentage of marks. However, the following
procedure/method for the conversion of the CGPA on 10 point scale into the percentage of
marks for employment /Higher studies, etc., to be used
Percentage (M) = CGPA x 10
Class Equivalence:
Subsequent to the conversion of final CGPA, after successful completion of the Programme, into
the percentage of marks (M), a graduating student is reckoned to have passes in
i. First Class with Distinction (FCD),if (M) ≥ 70%
ii. First Class (FC), if 60≤(M) <70
iii. Second Class (SC), if 50≤(M) <60
iv. Pass Class (P), if 40≤(M) ≤50
Re-appearing Norms
A student can re-appear for a paper, in which he/she has obtained F grade. Number of attempts
for such paper is mentioned on the grade card, from 2nd attempt onwards. Letter Grade will be
awarded and mentioned in the grade card, on obtaining a passing grade (E to O), in the
respective semester.
10. VERTICAL PROGRESSION
Students having W, F and NE grades for the courses totaling to more than 16 credits, in the 1st and
2nd semester of the 1st year of the programme shall not be permitted to move to the 3rd semester
of the Programme.
The students who fail to satisfy CIE and attendance requirements shall repeat the courses
whenever offered next and become eligible for the 2nd year.
Obtaining CIE: From 3rd semester onwards, a student who obtains the required attendance for the
course, but not the required CIE marks, is allowed to move forward to the next semester.
However, the student shall mandatorily obtain the required CIE in the subsequent semester.
Obtaining minimum CIE marks for the course is mandatory. It may also be noted that the student
shall not be permitted to appear for SEE in such courses until he/she obtains the required CIE.
Completion of backlog courses:
From 3rd semester (2nd year) onwards,
322a. The student who obtains required attendance, CIE, and appearing for SEE, obtains F
grade, shall be allowed to move forward to the next semester (odd/even), irrespective
of several F grades, subjected to the maximum duration of the course.
b. There shall be no restriction for promotion from an even to next odd semester (or odd
to next even semester) even if the student has not satisfied the attendance requirement
in one or more courses (including mandatory courses), but he/she shall not be eligible
to appear for SEE in those course(s). Such students shall repeat those courses,
whenever offered next.
c. A student shall be given admission to the 7th semester (4th year) provided he/she
passes all courses of 1st and 2nd semesters.
NOTE: A student who has not obtained eligibility for the 3rd semester, even after three
academic years, from the date of admission to 1st semester, shall discontinue the
program or get re-admitted to the 1st year BE (The Norms are subjected to the
regulations/amendments issued by VTU Belagavi, time to time.)
11.ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS
The attendance is a mandatory requirement for the students registered to different
programmers offered in the college.
11.1. ATTENDANCE RULES
a) Minimum attendance of 85% in each course with a provision to condone 10% of the
attendance by the Principal, on the basis of medical grounds, participation in NSS/NCC/Red
Cross/Republic Day/Independence Day parades /University /State/National/ International
Level Sports and cultural activities, seminars, workshops, paper presentations etc., of significant
value. The necessary documents in support are to be submitted along with
recommendations to condone the shortage.
b) The basis for the calculation of the attendance shall be the period of term prescribed by the
college in its calendar of events. For the first semester regular students and third semester
lateral entry students, the same is reckoned from the date of confirmed admission to the
programme/commencement of classes, whichever is later.
c) The students are informed about their attendance status in the first week of every month by
the Department/course instructor and the students are cautioned to make up the shortage
of attendance, if any.
d) A candidate having shortage of attendance in one or more courses is not permitted to appear
for SEE of such courses and has to re-register that course in the subsequent semesters
whenever offered.
32311.2 ABSENCE DURING THE SEMESTER
(a) A student must inform the HoD/Principal, immediately for any instance of continuous
absence from classes.
(b) A student who is absent due to illness or any other emergency, up to a maximum of two
weeks, should approach the course teacher.
(c) A student who remains absent from a CIE due to illness or any other genuine reason should
inform the course teacher, faculty advisor and HoD immediately prior to conduction of exam
and produce relevant documents from Taluka/District Health Officer(or endorsed), for the
provision of compensatory test.
12.TERMINATION FROM THE PROGRAMME
A student shall be required to withdraw from the programme and leave the college (forfeit his
engineering seat) on the following grounds:
a) Absence from classes for more than six weeks, at a time in a semester, without leave of
absence being granted by the competent authorities.
b) Failure to meet the standards of discipline as prescribed by the college from time to
time.
12.1. MAXIMUM DURATION FOR COMPLETION OF PROGRAMME
A student admitted to 1st semester B.E shall complete the programme within a period of eight
academic years from the date of his/her first admission, failing which he/she has to discontinue
from the programme.
The students through lateral entry shall complete the programme within a period of six academic
years from the date of his/her first admission, failing which he/she has to discontinue from the
programme.
13. AWARD OF DEGREE
A student shall be eligible for the award of degree if he/she has:
i. Fulfilled the prescribed academic requirements for the award of degree as per the
University statute.
ii. No dues to the department, hostels, library, and any other functional part of the
college.
iii. No disciplinary action is pending against the candidate.
The award of the degree must be recommended by the Academic Council and BoG.
32413.1. B.E DEGREE
a. Students shall be declared to have completed the programme of BE/B. Tech. degree and
is eligible for the award of degree provided the students have undergone the stipulated
Course work of all the semesters under the Scheme of Teaching and Examinations and
has earned the prescribed number of credits within the permitted maximum duration.
b. For the award of degree, completion of mandatory courses, if any, as applicable is compulsory.
c. Mandatory Earning of Activity points:
S.No. Students Category AICTE Activity points
1. Regular students admitted to 4-year Degree program 1002. Student entering 4 years degree programs through
lateral entry
753. Students transferred from other Universities to fifth
semester
5013.2 B.E (HONOURS) DEGREE
A student shall be declared to have completed the B.E degree programme and be eligible to get
undergraduate (B.E) degree with Honours, provided:
i. A student has undergone the stipulated coursework of all semesters under the same
scheme of teaching & examination and has earned the prescribed number of credits,
passed all the mandatory courses and earned AICTE Activity Points.
ii. Has earned additional credits as prescribed by VTU Belagavi, through university approved
online courses and approved by BoS or respective departments, AC &BoG.
iii. Satisfies the VTU Regulations governing the award of Honours at B.E degree programmes,
from time to time.
13.2.1. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR REGISTRATION
Every student intending to register for the Honours qualification shall fulfill the following
academic requirements:
a. Registration to Honours degree shall start from fifth semester onwards.
b. After registration a student shall have obtained a grade ≥ C in all the credit courses and
passed mandatory courses, in the first attempt only, in all the semesters until this stage.
c. The students registering for Honours degree shall have obtained a CGPA ≥ 7.50 at the end of
the fourth semester.
d. The lateral entry Diploma students shall have completed Bridge Course Mathematics I and
II and other mandatory courses (Environmental Studies and Constitution of India) during
third and fourth semester, in first attempt only.
e. The lateral entry B.Sc. students shall have completed Computer Aided Engineering
Graphics and Engineering Mechanics and other mandatory courses (Environmental
Studies and Constitution of India) of first year Engineering programme by the end of the
fourth semester in first attempt only.
13.2.2. REGISTRATION PROCEDURE
a. Any student meeting the eligibility criteria specified above and intending to register
325for the Honours degree/qualification shall apply to the University through the Principal,
in the prescribed form along with the requisite application fees paid, within 15
working days after notification by the University.
b. If registered, the students shall pay a one-time non-refundable registration fee as
prescribed by the University to confirm the registration.
13.2.3 ADDITIONAL COURSEWORK
a. In addition to the courses prescribed by the university to be completed successfully in
the remaining semesters, i.e., fifth to eighth for relevant degree award, each student
registered for the Honours qualification shall have to take up the course work as
notified by the university from NPTEL and other platforms and complete each course
work successfully, irrespective of the number of attempts, with a final score (online
assignment: 25% + proctored examination: 75%), leading to NPTEL elite (60 to 75%) /
elite plus silver (76 to 89%) / elite gold (≥ 90%) certificate, within the minimum
prescribed duration for the award of degree.
b. Students shall be permitted to drop the registered course work(s) and select
alternative course work(s) in case they cannot appear for proctored examination(s) or
complete the examination.
c. The university shall announce the BoS approved list of MOOCs (chosen from
NPTEL/SWAYAM/other platforms), corresponding to each Engineering programme.
d. The university shall have the freedom to review and approve additional online
platform from time to time.
i. Students shall choose online courses totaling to 18 or more credits from the bouquet
of approved online courses.
ii. Students shall select in consultation with the concerned faculty advisor, MOOCs such
that the content/syllabus of the chosen course are not like that of the programme’s
first to eighth semester core courses, professional electives, or open electives that the
student chooses at later semesters of the programme. In case of violation, the credits
earned by the students in such course(s) shall not be considered for the summation of
prescribed 18 or more credits and hence for the award of Honours degree.
e. The students shall earn the credit by only appearing in person to the proctored
examination conducted by NPTEL/SWAYAM/other platform.
f. The method of assessment shall be as per NPTEL online platform.
g. The number of credits registered in a semester, including the regular courses and NPTEL
courses, should not exceed 28.
h. The credit equivalent for online NPTEL courses shall be determined based on the
following table:
Table 14.1: Assigned credits
Online course duration Assigned credits
04 weeks 01
08 weeks 02
12 weeks 03
13.2.4. AWARD OF HONOURS DEGREE/QUALIFICATION
All the students who successfully complete the online courses, as prescribed by the University, and
326submit their certificates to the University, through Principal, against the notification issued by the
Registrar (Evaluation), in time, before closure of eighth semester as per calendar, shall be eligible for
the Honours Degree/qualification.
a. The HoD of the respective department shall submit the list of students through Principal, to
VTU Belagavi, who are eligible for the award of Honours degree along with the total credits
earned by each student and the corresponding MOOC certificates to the university.
b. The list shall be validated by the faculty advisor of the students under consideration and
endorsed by the HoD.
c. The Students, who do not submit certificates on or before the last date, prescribed by the
university, shall not be considered for the award of Honours qualification, irrespective of the
number of credits earned by them. However, they shall be awarded only B.E degree.
d. The Honours qualification shall be suffixed to the respective degrees and shown in the
degree certificate as recognition of higher achievement by the student concerned.
e. The CGPA earned by the students shall be only based on the students’ performance in the
various semester level examinations conducted by the college.
i. Students shall maintain a grade ≥ D in all the courses of fifth to eighth semester, in the
first attempt only.
ii. Students failing to maintain a grade ≥ D in all the courses of fifth to eighth semester,
in the first attempt only, shall discontinue the attempt the additional credits.
iii. The Students not having CGPA ≥ 8.50 at the end of programme shall not be eligible for
the award of Honours, even if they have satisfied the additional credits consideration
prescribed for Honours degree.
iv. The Principals of respective colleges shall submit to the university the list of students
who fails to satisfy the criterion (i) from time to time.
v. The Registrar shall notify the de-registered students from time to time.
f. The Honours degree shall be awarded only if the CGPA at the end of B.E programme≥ 8.50g. Additional credits earned through NPTEL shall not be considered for CGPA of B.E
programme as well as rank declaration.
h. The award of the Honours degree shall be recommended by the Academic Senate and
approved by the Executive Council of VTU Belagavi
(The Norms are subjected to the regulations/amendments issued by VTU Belagavi, time to time.)
13.2 B.E. Minor Degree
Students shall be declared to have completed the programme of B.E./ B.Tech., degree and shall
be eligible to get undergraduate B.E. / B.Tech., degree with Minor, provided.
i. The students have undergone the stipulated Course work of all the semesters under the
Scheme of Teaching & Examinations and have earned the prescribed number of 160
credits for students admitted to 1st semester B.E and 120 credits for students admitted
to 3rd semester.
ii. Has earned additional 18 or more credits through University approved Courses,
approved by BoS of respective department, AC and BoG.
(The Norms are subjected to the regulations/amendments issued by VTU Belagavi, time to time.)
AWARD OF GOLD MEDALS AND RANKS
A student shall be eligible for the award of Gold medal or Rank if he/she has:  Passed all courses in First Attempt (No X, I, W, F, NE Grades, NP in mandatory courses
and should not have dropped a course)  Secured Highest CGPA  CGPA is considered from III semester to VIII semester.
327The Gold medals and ranks are decided by Rank Awarding Committee based on the
approved norms and the committee’s decisions are final and binding on all stakeholders.
13.3. GRADUATION CEREMONY
Degree will be awarded in person for the students who have graduated during the preceding
academic year. Degrees will be awarded in absentia to such students who are unable to attend the
Graduation Ceremony. Students are required to apply for the graduation ceremony along with
the prescribed fees, after having satisfactorily completed all the degree requirements within the
specified date to arrange for the award of the degree during graduation ceremony.
The graduation ceremony for the award of degrees to the students completing the prescribed
academic requirements in each case will be in consultation with the university by following the
provisions of the statute of VTU. The Graduation ceremony will be conducted at Basaveshwar
Engineering College, Bagalkote.
14. DISCIPLINE ON CAMPUS
a. Use of mobile phones (Cell Phone) is strictly prohibited in the academic areas. If any
student is found using mobile phones in the campus, his/her mobile phone will be
confiscated, and the student will be penalized.
b. The vehicle speed should not exceed 30 km/hr and blowing of horn in the campus is
prohibited.
c. Smoking, chewing, and spitting and use of tobacco in any form are strictly prohibited
in the campus and within 100 m from the boundary of the campus. If found guilty will
attract punishment/Penalty
d. Eve teasing by the students is strictly prohibited and will attract severe punishment.
e. Misbehaving with faculty/staff will be viewed seriously and will lead to
punishment/legal action.
f. Sale of tobacco and derived products within 100m from the boundary of the campus
is strictly prohibited.
g. Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks, narcotic drugs, or any
kind of hallucinogenic drugs is punishable as per the prevailing laws.
h. Hacking into college computer systems (such as entering other person’s area without
prior permission, manipulation and/or damage of computer/hardware and software
or any other cybercrime)/Campus Network/Campus Servers is liable for punishment.
i. Messaging/sending/possession of objectionable material using IT infrastructure is
banned, if found guilty will attract severe punishment.
j. Noisy and unruly behavior disturbing studies of fellow students is liable for punishment.
k. Plagiarism of any nature is prohibited.
l. Unauthorized fund raising and promotion of sales of any kind is prohibited.
m. Causing damage to college and hostel properties for any reason and any form
is considered as an offence and will be punished /penalized according to prevailing
rules.
Commensurate with the gravity of offence, the punishment may be reprimand, expulsion from
the hostel, debarring from the examination, disallowing the use of certain facilities of the college,
rustication for a specified period or even out right expulsion from the college or even handing over
328the case to appropriate law enforcement authorities or the judiciary as required by the
circumstances and decided by the Principal/Committee constituted by Principal.
15. EXAMINATION MALPRACTICES
Any student appearing for the examination (CIE and SEE) is liable to be charged with committing
malpractice in the following cases:
1) Being in possession of any written material (either print or hand written) portions a book,
programmable calculator or any other material or matter, which is not permissible to
be brought into the examination hall.
2) In case found with any written matter on scribbling pad, question paper, admission
ticket, calculator, palm, hand, leg, or any part of the body, handkerchief, clothes,
socks, instrument box, identity card, scales etc.
3) Disclosing identity in SEE answer script by writing any peculiar word/symbol or by writing
USN on the pages other than the block meant for USN on cover sheet
4) Copying any matter or answer of another candidate or similar aid or if assistance is
rendered to another candidate.
5) Communicating with any candidate or any other person inside or outside the
examination hall or assist in writing answer.
6) Request/represent of any offer/threat for inducement of bribery to room
superintendent/any other official for favors or to the examiner in the valuation of answer
script(s).
7) Smuggling out or in or tearing of the answer script/supplementary sheets or inserting
papers not issued by invigilator, written outside the examination hall into the answer
book or running away along with the answer script from the examination hall or
premises.
8) Impersonation to answer in his/her place in the examination hall.
9) Bringing mobile phone/smart gadget to the examination hall
10) Unruly behavior inside or near the examination hall.
11) If a student is found copying or communicating with the others during examinations
and later identified in the recording captured through surveillance camera placed in
the examination hall, will be referred to MPCC committee.
The students booked under malpractice will be referred to Malpractice Case Consideration
Committee (MPCC) for suitable disciplinary action. For any of these malpractices mentioned
above the disciplinary/ punitive action recommended by the MPCC is final and binding.
The guidelines for recommending penalties and punishments to the students involved in
Malpractices during college examinations shall be as given in the table below.
Sl.
No. Nature of Malpractice Penalty / Punishment to be imposed
3291. a. Misbehavior with officials using
obscene or abusing language.
b. Writing the subject related matter on
the question paper, admission ticket,
desk, scribbling pad, Calculator, hand
kerchiefs, cloths, socks, instrument box,
identity card, hall ticket, scales, or any
part of the body etc.
c. Disclosing identity by writing any words
or by making any peculiar marks or by
writing USN on the pages other than
the facing sheet in the answer scripts.
d. Possession of Electronic gadgets like
mobile, programmable calculator, pen
drive or any other smart gadget in the
examination hall.
e. Communicating with any student or
any other person inside or outside the
examination hall with a view to take
assistance or aid to write answers in
the examination.
f. Copying from the material or answer of
another student or assistance is
rendered to another student within the
examination hall.
g. Making any request of representation
or inducting to bribery to Room
Superintendent or and any other
official or officer of the college for
favors in the examination hall or to
the Examiner in the answer script.
h. Approaching directly or indirectly the
teachers, officers, officials, or
examiners or bring about undue
pressure or influence upon them for
favor in the examination.
i. Smuggling out or smuggling in or
tearing off the answer script sheets or
supplementary sheets or inserting
paperswrittenoutsidethe examination
hall into the answer book.
j. Receiving material for copying from
outside or inside the examination hall
k. Bringing into the examination hall or
being found in possession of portions
of a book, manuscript, or such other
a. Material not related to the paper:
Fine of Rs. 2,500 and denial of
performance of that particular paper
in which the student is booked
under Malpractice, and the student
has to re-register after a gap of one
regular semester. No re-registration
of that paper is permitted in
supplementary semester.
b. Material related to the paper but
not written: A fine of Rs. 5,000 and
denial of benefit of performance of
that particular paper and the
student has to re-register after a gap
of two regular semesters. No reregistration is permitted in
supplementary semester.
c. Material related to the paper but
written: A fine of Rs. 7,500 and
denial of benefit of performance of
that particular Examination (all the
courses for which the students has
registered for the examinations). He
can re-register after two regular
semesters. No re-registration is
permitted in supplementary
semester.
The MPCC shall recommend the
punishments based on the severity of the
case and the severity of the case shall be
recorded.
330material or matter.
l. Destroying any evidence of
malpractice, tearing, or mutilating the
answer script or running away along
with the answer script from the
examination hall or premises.
Committing any other act of omission
intending to gain an advantage or favor
in the examination by misleading,
deceiving, or inducing the examiner or
officers or authorities of the college.
2. Repeatedly indulging in malpractice Fine of Rs. 10,000, and the student has to
re-admission after a gap of three regular
semesters.
3. a. Impersonating or allowing any other
person to impersonate to answer in
him/her place in the examination hall.
b. Threatening with weapons or any other
means to the Room Superintendent,
Members of the Flying Observers, and
officers/officials of the examination
centers.
A fine of Rs. 50,000, and the student is
suspended for admission/re-registration
of all courses, for next two years.
In case of impersonation, both of them
will be handed over to the Police for
further investigation.
In general,
1. The punishments shall be uniform and commensurate with the gravity of offence
covered under Malpractice for all the students committing similar offences.
2. Malpractice and punishments imposed on the student shall invariably be intimated to
the concerned parents in writing by the Principal.
3. Rejection of performance of the examination shall not be permitted for the students
who are punished for Malpractice(s).
4. The student punished under Malpractice(s) shall not be eligible to take admission to the
next higher semester, till the completion of redeeming of the punishments imposed on
him/her.
5. In case a student remains absent for the MPCC meeting along with the parents/guardian
the fine amount will be doubled by the committee and is the binding on the student.
16. RAGGING AND CONSEQUENCES
As per the order of Honorable Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is considered as a
criminal offence and is banned by UGC and AICTE. Any form of ragging will be severely dealt with.
Ragging in any forms is strictly prohibited in the college campus and students found involved in
ragging activities within and outside the campus will be severely punished. Students shall conduct
themselves within and outside the premises of the college, in a manner befitting the students of
an Institution of National Importance. The college has implemented the UGC Regulations on
Curbing the Menace of Ragging in Higher Educational Institutions, 2009” in the letter and spirit. As
per the UGC regulations the punishable acts of ragging are as listed below.
331Punishable ingredients of Ragging:  Abetment to ragging  Use of criminal force
 Criminal conspiracy to ragging  Extortion
 Unlawful assembly and rioting while ragging  Criminal trespass  Public nuisance created during ragging  Offences against property  Violation of decency and morals through
ragging
 Assault as well as sexual offences or
unnatural offences  Injury to body, causing hurt or grievous hurt  Criminal intimidation  Wrongful restraint or confinement  Attempts to commit any or all the abovementioned offences against the victim(s)
MEASURES OF PROHIBITION AND PREVENTION OF RAGGING  Ragging in all its forms shall be completely banned in the entire institution, including
its departments, constituent units, all its premises (academic, residential, sports,
canteen, etc.) whether located within the campus or outside and in all means of
transportation of students whether public or private.  The institution shall take strict action against those found guilty of ragging and/or of
abetting ragging.  A student seeking admission to the hostel shall have to submit additional undertaking
in the form of Annexure I along with his/her application for hostel accommodation.  At the commencement of the academic session the Head of the Institution shall
convene and address a meeting of various functionaries/agencies, like Hostel Wardens,
representatives of students, parents/guardians, faculty, district administration
including police, to discuss the measures to be taken to prevent ragging in the Institution
and steps to be taken to identify the offenders and punish them suitably.
The institution shall request the media togive adequate publicity to the law prohibiting ragging and
the negative aspects of ragging and the institutions resolve to ban ragging and punish those
found guilty without fear or favor. • The institution shall identify, properly illuminate, and man all vulnerable locations. • The institution shall tighten security in its premises, especially at the vulnerable places.
If necessary, intense policing shall be resorted to at such points at odd hours during the
early months of the academic sessions. • The institution shall also organize joint sensitization programmes of freshers and seniors. • Freshers shall be encouraged to report incidents of ragging, either as victims, or even
as witnesses. • Anti-Ragging Committee: Anti-Ragging Committee shall be headed by the Principal and
shall consist of representatives of faculty members, parents, students belonging to the
freshers’ category as well as seniors and non-teaching staff. It shall monitor the antiragging activities in the institution, consider the recommendations of Anti-Ragging
Squad and take appropriate decisions, including spelling out suitable punishments to those
found guilty. • The Anti-Ragging Squad: The Anti-Ragging Squad shall be nominated by the Head of the
institution with such representation as considered necessary and shall consist of
members belonging to the various sections of the campus community. The Squad shall
have vigil, oversight, and patrolling functions. It shall be kept mobile, alert, and active
always and
40shall be empowered to inspect places of potential ragging and make surprise raids on
hostels and other hot spots. The Squad shall investigate incidents of ragging and make
recommendations to the Anti-Ragging Committee and shall work under the overall
guidance of the said Committee. • Freshers who do not report the incidents of ragging either as victims or as witnesses
shall also be punished suitably. • The burden of proof of ragging or otherwise shall lie on the perpetrator of ragging and not
on the victim. • The institution shall file an FIR with the police/local authorities whenever a case of
ragging is reported but continue with its own enquiry and other measures without
waiting for action on the part of the police/local authorities. Remedial action shall be
initiated and completed within the one week of the incident itself. • The Migration/Transfer Certificate issued to the student by the institution shall have an
entry, apart from those relating to general conduct and behavior, whether the student has
been punished for the offence of committing or abetting ragging, or not, as also
whether the student has displayed persistent violent or aggressive behavior or any
inclination to harm others. • Preventing or acting against ragging shall be the collective responsibility of all levels
and sections of authorities or functionaries in the institution, including faculty, and not
merely that of the specific body/committee constituted for prevention of ragging. • The institution shall set up appropriate committees including the course-in-charge,
student advisor, Warden, and some senior students to actively monitor, promote and
regulate healthy interaction between the fresher’s and senior students.
Fresher’s welcome parties shall be organized in each department by the senior students and the
faculty together soon after admissions, preferably within the first two weeks of the beginning of the
academic session, for proper introduction to one another and where the talents of the fresher’s
are brought out properly in the presence of the faculty, thus helping them to shed their inferiority
complex, if any, and remove their inhibitions.
Every student and his/her parent have to submit an undertaking in the prescribed form (given in
annexure II) that the student/ ward will not involve in ragging as per the UGC / AICTE guidelines.
If the student is found involved in ragging activities, commensurate with the gravity of offence, the
punishment may be reprimand, expulsion from the hostel, debarment from an examination,
disallowing the use of certain facilities of the College, rustication for a specified period or even
outright expulsion from the College, or even handing over the case to appropriate law
enforcement authorities or the Judiciary, as required by the circumstances.
Interpretation
1. Any question as to the interpretation of these regulations shall be decided by the college,
whose decision shall be final and binding on all the stakeholders. The college shall also
have the power to issue clarifications to remove any doubt, difficulty or anomaly which
may arise in regard to the implementation of these regulations.
412. These regulations should be read as a whole for the purpose of any interpretation. In case
of any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of the above guidelines, the decision of the
Principal is final.
3. The college may change or amend these regulations at any time and the changes or
amendments made shall be applicable with effect from the date notified by the college.
19. ACADEMIC BANK OF CREDITS
It is a National level facility that will promote the flexibility of the curriculum framework and
interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary academic mobility of students across the higher educational
institutions in the country with an appropriate credit transfer mechanism.
20. MULTIPLE ENTRY MULTIPLE EXIT
1) Certificate in Respective Programmes of Engineering A student who exit at the end of II
year of the programme shall be awarded a certificate, if he/she successfully passes the
registered courses and earns:
(i) At least 50% of the credit requirements of B.E./B.Tech. programme. (i.e. 80 credits)
However, it is 25% for lateral admission candidates (i.e., 40 credits).
(ii) At least 50% of the programme professional core courses (some specific courses may be
specified, so the leaving student has decent skills), and (iii) A minimum CGPA of 5.0.
2) B.Sc. in Respective Programmes of Engineering A student who exit the end of III year of the
programme shall be awarded a B.Sc. degree, if he/she successfully passes the registered
courses and earns:
(i) At least 75% of the credit requirements of B.E./B.Tech. programme (i.e. 120 credits); and
completed at least 3 years (80 credits and 2 years respectively for lateral admission
candidates) in the programme.
(ii) 100% of programme professional core courses
(iii) A minimum CGPA of 5.0. With B.Sc., the student is eligible for entry into programmers
which take B.Sc. as eligibility criteria.
42Annexure - I
UNDERTAKING
I, _ , Student ofbearing USN , Boys
hostel/Ladies Hostel, Bagalkote, in connection with my stay in the hostel, I hereby give
undertaking to the Hostel management of Basaveshwar Engineering College Boys
Hostel/Ladies Hostel, Bagalkote
1. I will follow the rules and regulations of the Hostel and maintain hostel discipline.
2. I will not indulge in any unlawful activities like ragging within college and hostel premises.
3. I have been informed by the management about the consequences if I involve in ragging.
4. I will not cause any loss/damage to the hostel properties for any reason.
5. I will not behave within the hostel premises in a way which may cause disturbance to the
hostel mates.
6. I will clear my mess bills every month before the due date specified without fail. If I fail to
do so I am aware that I will be denied themes facilities.
7. I will not use water Heaters/Heating coils/Gas cylinders/Electrical iron box/any electrical
equipment my room without prior permission of the Hostel Warden.
8. I will not allow any student, who is non-resident of my hostel, to stay in my room without
prior permission of the Hostel Warden.
9. I will not celebrate or involve in celebration of Birthday parties or any such parties which
are not permitted by the management within the hostel premises.
10. I have been informed by the management that I have to be inside the hostel every day
before 07:30PM. If l need to stay beyond 07:30PM outside the hostel I will seek the
permission of Hostel Warden for the same.
11. It will be solely my responsibility of any valuables like cash/gold/mobile phones/watch
luggage etc., and the hostel management will not be responsible for the loss/theft of any of
such valuables.
12. I will conduct myself in a decent manner and behave politely with hostel staff and wardens.
13. I will not consume alcohol, narcotic drugs, or any prohibited intoxicating drugs within
the hostel premises.
14. I will attend any meetings called by the Warden without fail.
15. I will vacate my room at the end of every even semester.
16. I have paid the hostel fees which will permit me to use the hostel facilities for two regular
semesters only. If l want to use hostel facilities for the days other than the two regular
semesters specified, I will pay whatever extra fees as fixed by the management.
I agree to the conditions laid down by the Hostel management, and I stick to the
undertaking given by me as mentioned above. I accept the decisions taken by the
management against me for any violation of the undertaking given by me.
Place: Name of Student:
Date: Signature of Student :
43ANNEXURE II
UNDERTAKING BY THE CANDIDATE/STUDENT
I, - S/o or D/o
of Mr/Mrs/Ms. have carefully read and fully understood the law prohibiting ragging and the directions of the
Supreme Court and the Central/State Government in this regard.
I have received a copy of the UGC Regulations on Curbing the Menace of Ragging in Higher
Educational Institutions, 2009, and have carefully gone through it.
I hereby undertake that,
I will not indulge inane behavior or act that may come under the definition of
ragging,
I will not participate in or abet or propagate ragging in any form,
I will not hurt anyone physically or psychologically or cause any other harm.
I hereby agree that if found guilty of any aspect of ragging, I may be punished as per
the provisions of the UGC Regulations mentioned above and/or as per the law in
force.
I hereby affirm that I have not been expelled or debarred from admission by any
institution.
Signed this day of Monthof _ year.
Signatur
e Name:
Address
: